hey what's up guys so in the recently
released don't breathe 2 which takes
place after the first one a blind
veteran tries protecting an orphan from
a bunch of criminals that are breaking
into his house i recently saw it and the
movie is completely nuts not necessarily
in a bad way i guess that's up to
interpretation let's start simple with
the characters one of the protagonists
is norman the blind man now in case you
don't know in the first movie he's the
villain who kept a woman in his basement
and at one point used a turkey baster
too
you know and he's the good guy in this
movie it's definitely a risky choice
especially in 2021 because throughout
the movie they try to be like no no no
he's a good sex offender and you're
sitting in the audience like what the
hell a good one it's like if you'd see a
documentary where they tried telling you
that harvey weinstein was the hero
that's not going to happen now there
have of course been plenty of movies
with really complicated and flawed
people were in the first act you kind of
noticed wait i'm rooting for the [ __ ]
in this story however it's incredibly
difficult to write those characters i
think one of the problems is that in the
first movie the hero was a woman who
robbed people for a living so in order
to make that criminal likable they
needed to make the person she's stealing
from infinitely worse than her and they
did they try to do the same thing here
but i thought it's just a little bit too
difficult to root for him anyway norman
steals this child and just decides
she's mine now what a hero but one day
there are these guys who break into his
house and try to take her from him now
the bad guys in this movie it's a little
bit strange because at one point it
seems like they're saving this girl the
movie flips on a little bit and says
they're the bad guys but they're
actually the good guys but they're
actually the bad guys and the group of
intruders oh man they're dicks they're
trying to steal the orphan for an
extraordinarily evil purpose we'll get
into that in a minute and this is where
the movie unfortunately shoots itself in
the foot a little bit because there is
no one to really root for do you want
the child abducting maniac to win or do
you want the murdering meth dealer to
win those are your options at one point
they make norman look like the hero
because he didn't kill a dog
i mean if that's all it takes to be a
hero i guess 99 of the people in the
united states are heroes i can't help
but think that this movie could have
worked much better if the intruders
would have been the people that are
saving the girl then the setup would
have been closer to the first one and
they could keep the same villain instead
the story is so much more complicated
than it needs to be because it wants you
to support one of these two horrible
teams it's like when you're in school
and you're in a fight with another kid
the principal comes and says hey stop
you're both being idiots he doesn't
start taking bets on who's going to win
although that would make school a lot
more fun anyway the little girl herself
tara she's the one you want to see
succeed but she's not quite a main
character because the movie is more
about the grown-ups beating each other
up in very extreme ways and she can't be
a part of that so tara ends up being
more of a side character now don't get
me wrong there are absolutely parts of
this movie that are enjoyable when the
blind man fights all the villains that
is pretty entertaining and fun however
the entire story could have been 25
minutes long because there were so many
opportunities for the intruders to win
first of all there's no real reason why
the group of thugs doesn't kill norman
right away in the first film one of the
thieves could have shot him but he
didn't because they just came for the
money and he's never done it before so
he's very nervous but these guys
wouldn't care at all they killed another
person earlier who didn't do anything
either and there were a few of these
moments where a person is in trouble and
there were very obvious alternative
solutions that doesn't make a movie bad
at all but in case you can't tell i like
thinking about these things for example
there's this one part where norman
attacks one of the intruders and instead
of killing him he glues his mouth and
nose shot and then just walks out of the
room then the bad guy removes the glue
when he's alone norman might as well
kill him then he'd have one fewer person
to fight later on there's also a scene
where terra is stuck in a box that's
being filled with water and there's a
cable that will electrocute her if the
water level gets too high but the hose
pumping the water inside loosely sits in
an opening so she could easily remove it
and there's one small aspect here that
when you compare it to the original
doesn't make that much sense because it
almost seems like norman is getting
weaker and stronger all at the same time
now i get that the sequel has to change
certain things especially when they make
the person who used to be the villain
the hero but there are seven people
attacking him all at once with machine
guns and none of them hit him yet he
takes way more damage in the one-on-one
fights the first movie made this more
understandable because the people who
went up against them didn't have any
guns and they weren't fighters so norman
could beat them up relatively easily but
for some reason 7 armed people some of
which used to be soldiers none of them
can land a critical shot even though
there are numerous times where he's
right in front of them okay so the way
i'm going to do this is that the first
half of the video will be spoiler free
because the movie is still in cinemas
and i want you to have a chance to watch
it but now we're going to go into the
spoiler territory and talk about the
more fun stuff now the reason the people
try to abduct the girl is because the
boss raelyn is actually her real father
this is where it feels like the
intruders are doing the right thing
however they just want to use terra
because her mother needs a heart
transplant so they essentially want her
as an organ donor and while this was not
as weird as the turkey baster scene when
it was revealed it was definitely enough
to leave me absolutely stunned which in
a horror movie is a good thing so while
breaking into norman's house they do
manage to take the girl and the old man
is lying on the ground as he's
surrounded by the bad guys and here
there is a mildly confusing moment the
thugs could just kill him but the leader
of the group says no where we're not
gonna kill him in front of my daughter
because she shouldn't see such
disturbing imagery right he will kill
tara and steal her organs but he won't
let her watch man die because you know
that would go a little too far i mean
that's what every good dad should do not
the kill your kid part you know what i
mean now in hindsight i recognize that
they may have done this to make the
daughter trust rayland so that she sees
him as a better person but initially it
does come off as overly convenient so
while norman is in the house they try to
burn it down and they do the typical bad
guy thing where they look at the house
and say oh yeah he's dead we can go now
but then norman escapes the burning
house alive and tries coming after them
for the girl and as he's preparing to
infiltrate raelyn's health it still
feels a little bit weird it's like
norman is thinking hey i kidnapped that
child fair and square she's my property
now how dare you take back what i
rightfully stole after that we go back
and forth between norman and the bad
guys it's revealed that the mother needs
a heart since she is the chef meth cook
in this house and that's where all the
money comes from so she's the only one
that can cook meth no offense but she
can barely move her arms or legs how
does this woman do anything can't she
just write down the recipe my grandma
writes down her recipes for us all the
time that is for food of course not
drugs moving on they manipulate tara
into giving up her heart since the
mother needs one from a direct relative
raelyn then spikes her juice with some
blue
and she passes out once she slowly comes
to she's on a surgery table still inside
the house and the diy surgeon that's
doing this back door operation he has
this line it's so
it's not a bad line i just thought it
was funny he says to the father
something along the lines of this
surgery carries a lot of risks and it
might not end well really removing
someone's heart in a stinky basement
where you usually cook meth i thought
everyone did that plus at least one of
them is not going to have a heart i'd
consider that very high risk but there's
one part that is quite questionable
but there is one part that is quite
questionable the young girl's heart is a
lot smaller than the one from the mother
now yes i've read that children can
donate organs to adults but i'm sure
that it's a whole process not just like
eh that could fit you can't just cut
someone open and plunder whatever you
want it's a person not a used car at a
junkyard and the daughter just lies
there the surgeon says out loud that
they will cut her open while she's awake
meanwhile she's on the table like
so uh
am i going to be cut open here really
quick earlier on they show her as this
tough survivalist so it doesn't really
fit with that then norman breaks into
the house and turns off the electricity
and without it the surgery can't take
place while he's in the basement one of
the henchmen has another opportunity to
kill him relatively easily they get into
a fight and norman falls to the floor
and the bad guy stands over him but then
the man starts holding a small speech
about why he's going to kill him instead
of just doing it and of course before he
does it the blind man doings him in the
head while this is happening all the
others are in the surgery room and
decide to take this party somewhere else
since they can't do the procedure
without electricity but can't they just
wait another five minutes until norman
makes his way to this room and then
shoot him instead raelyn wants all of
the guys with guns to go off as a
separate group to find norman while he
and his wife try escaping the building
with their daughter alone is this guy
high on meth right now but the ending of
this movie was actually really cool and
i felt like it did the only right thing
it would take a little too long to
explain but basically the daughter kills
her crazy mother by chopping off her
hand and throwing her off a ledge where
she falls to her death then norman
scratches out raelyn's eyes after all of
that norman tells the girl the truth
about what he did in his past how he
killed some people and used a turkey
baster in a way that is probably not
recommended in the instruction manual
but it turns out that as he's explaining
all of this tara already walked out the
building and norman is just talking to
himself no i'm just kidding that would
have been pretty funny though norman
confesses to all his sins and then the
father kills him then the daughter kills
raelyn i approve finally she walks out
alive and lives happily ever after
anyway that was a look at don't breathe
too there was a lot more breathing in
this one than the first one but when the
fighting started to happen it was so
pretty fun let me know if you've seen it
and what you thought about it as always
i hope you liked it and that i get to
see you guys
in the next video bye guys